to return to some breaking news an El
jazer team has been hit in an Israeli
strike in southern Lebanon journalist
kmen Baka and Eli braia were injured and
have been taken to hospital they were
traveling in a car when they were hit
now journalists from Reuters and AFP
were also hit in Alma Al shab near the
Israeli border one of the journalists
was killed well Ali hasham joins us live
from Alma Al shab in Lebanon and Ali
what more can you tell us about what has
been unfolding there over the last
hour Tom um there was a convoy of
journalists we were we were all together
so first of all we went to Marin and we
were covering from there then when we
started viewing shelling um we separated
the team that um included the
uh correspondent in Arabic Arabic our C
Mania and uh colleagues from uh French
French agency AFP and from writter they
all they went separately to an open area
actually but it was a bit high so it was
overlooking the whole scene while myself
and my colleague Ry the cameraman we
went to to the Village inside the
village and we were live on on TV all
the time then there was this direct
shell that hit the
and U one of the colleagues U was killed
our colleagues uh Carmen and El were
injured other also other colleagues from
other agencies were injured and it was
clear that you know they they identified
themselves clearly and whoever is is is
observing or monitoring the border and
of course the mil the Israeli Army is
monitoring the the Border day and night
and before before launching this shell
on a on a new team on new teams Crews
that were clearly wearing their flat
jackets their helmets with press written
on on
them it was it was horrible I mean they
were they identified themselves they
were clear they were clearly journalists
but they were hit by Israeli shell we we
we watching as you're speaking we're
we're seeing footage from the scene it
it isn't live it has been pre-recorded
um in the last half hour or so but can
you tell us what is happening there now
are you still
there no we are now on our way to the
hospital in the city of Ty to of course
be with our colleagues there but I mean
the situation was tense the whole day
and we've been covering this Al yes and
uh as journalists we were trying to be
together all the time just to you know
at least to to be safe together yes and
every time we are in some in somewhere
Ian we check on each other so actually
even even the the the colleague who was
killed in this attack we had a
conversation before just separating and
he said he's going to assess the risks
and that's why he went to that place and
the others followed him and it was he
wasn't in a he wasn't I mean on the
borders directly he was he was far from
the border he was on a on a small hill
overlooking the whole place they were
clear with their cars with their cameras
and there were of course foreign and and
local uh Crews uh they work for
international agencies but some of them
are Lebanese and some of them are are
foreigners yeah so this is this is the
situation and yeah this is what we what
I can say like you say they they were um
clearly marked as as being from the
media weren't they was there any warning
at all leading up to
this well I I don't claim to to to know
if there was a warning warning because I
wasn't there as I told you I separated
from them uh but it was clear that
because there is a a a shot by by
Reuters showing the moment of the the
shell attack the moment the shell was
launched and it was clear there was
nothing before no one was there was no
uh um kind of warning shell for example
that hit around them close to them in a
way that they will be warned they will
be alarmed and then they will park and
leave there was nothing like that at
least this is what we saw in the video
now we're going to see our colleagues
we're going to talk to them hopefully
they will be in a better situation
and of course we will explain more
details on on what happened but this
crew was together all day and the
Israelis were seeing this crew all day
because we were on the on the road all
the time back and forth so it wasn't
that this team just came you know I mean
we were identified clearly so as I told
you we separated them and this team was
hit
directly and they were all identified
they all had their flag jackets on them
and of course our team also I mean there
were there were SMGs there were
equipment I mean whoever whoever knows
ABCs of of you know public affairs will
know that these are journalists because
they were clearly journalists there was
nothing that could really uh uh be vague
about their identity so it was a it was
an
intentional uh targeting just like what
happened with our colleague Sharina in
Palestine a year and less than a year
and a half ago yeah Ali I just want to
clarify one thing really quickly do you
think that this was an a strike or you
said it was a shelling a tank
shelling most probably this was a tank
shelling because it was a shell that H
when we arrived there at the place there
was a car Bing we saw we saw the
ambulances the body of our colleague who
was killed was probably still there the
ambulance just just uh uh transferred
him now to the to the
hospital May so rest in peace and he I
mean he was I don't want to give the
name right
now no no we understand that of all yeah
maybe his family needs to know first of
all I don't know if his family was was
informed
well he was a
professional him four years because
we've covered together several Wars
before this is not the first
war okay thank you so much for that Ali
that's Ali hasham for us and Alma Al
shab if you're just joining us there's
breaking news uh this hour an Israeli
Strikers killed one journalist and
injured three others in southern Lebanon
well alzer's Lebanon bureau chief maren
Ibraham was there just after it happened
this is what happened all the
journalists were here together it's a
type of safety measure this is to make
sure that both the resistants and Israel
know that we are journalists and in one
location I can clearly say that we the
journalists were targeted on purpose we
were far from the confrontations the
confrontations are up this hill Over the
Horizon where the fires are this spot is
where the journalist was all of the
journalists were wearing the safety kit
they all had the Press slogan on their
chest and cars this car behind me the
one that is totally damaged is the AL
jazer car the AL jazer crew was inside
this car my colleagues were transferred
to hospitals reporter kmen Juka and
cameraman Ellie brachia one other
cameraman was killed journalists were
killed and injured while doing their
work